---
Title: SC2024 Education Activities
EventDate: 2024-11-19
EventTime: 14:00:00
TimeZone: America/New_York
category: event
location: Georgia World Congress Center, Atlanta, GA
# Published date:
Date: 2024-11-12T8:00:00-0500
Summary: Listings of HPC education workshops, talks, and BOFs at SC24.
---

## Meetings

### SIGHPC Education Chapter meetup
*Tuesday, November 19, 2-3p, A313*

## Outreach 

### AI & HPC in the Classroom
*Saturday, November 16, 2024, 10 am–4 pm, Room B216*  
https://sc24.supercomputing.org/students/ai-hpc-in-the-classroom/

Come explore exercises that will jump-start your students’ understanding of how artificial intelligence (AI) works in the context of high-performance computing (HPC) and what is needed to make it more trustworthy, ethical, and reliable. This workshop is aimed at K-12 teachers of any subject. To make a future where AI is a positive tool for society, we need every kind of thinker to work on this challenge. The exercises that we will do could be used in a social studies class, a science class, or a computing class.

## Tutorials

### Parallel Computing 101
*Sunday, November 17, 9am - 5pm B203*  
https://sc24.conference-program.com/presentation/?id=tut169&sess=sess406

This tutorial provides a comprehensive overview of parallel computing, emphasizing those aspects most relevant to the user. It is suitable for new users, students, managers, and anyone seeking an overview of parallel computing. It discusses software and hardware/software interaction, with an emphasis on standards, portability, and systems that are widely available.
The tutorial surveys basic parallel computing concepts, using examples selected from multiple engineering, scientific, and machine learning problems. These examples illustrate using MPI on distributed memory systems; OpenMP on shared memory systems; MPI+OpenMP on hybrid systems; and CUDA and compiler directives on GPUs and accelerators. It discusses numerous parallelization and load balancing approaches; software engineering and performance improvement tools; and gives a brief overview of recent developments such as exascale systems and the use of parallelism in LLMs.
The tutorial helps attendees make intelligent decisions by covering the primary options that are available, explaining how the different components work together and what they are most suitable for. Extensive pointers to web-based resources are provided to facilitate follow-up studies.

## Workshops

### EduHPC-24: Workshop on Education for High Performance Computing 
*Sunday, Nov. 17 9am - 12:30pm, B301*   
https://sc24.conference-program.com/presentation/?id=wksp115&sess=sess285


The EduHPC workshop invites unpublished manuscripts from academia, industry, and national laboratories on topics in high-performance computing (HPC), parallel and distributed computing (PDC), distributed data science (DS), scalable AI and machine learning (AI/ML), and the Internet of Things and Edge computing (IoT/Edge) as they relate to undergraduate and graduate education, professional training and workforce development. Because of the growing importance of AI workloads on HPC systems, this year’s workshop will have a special focus on scalable Machine Learning/Deep Learning pedagogy. Past workshops have included papers from Computer Science, Computational Science and Engineering, Data Science, and computational courses in STEM and non-STEM disciplines (e.g., Business).

### Eleventh SC Workshop on Best Practices for HPC Training and Education
*Monday, Nov 18 9am - 5:30pm, B308*   
https://sc24.conference-program.com/session/?sess=sess752

The inherent wide distribution, heterogeneity, and dynamism of the current and emerging high-performance computing and software environments increasingly challenge cyberinfrastructure facilitators, trainers, and educators. The challenge is how to support and train the current diverse users and prepare the future educators, researchers, developers, and policymakers to keep pace with the rapidly evolving HPC environments to advance discovery and economic competitiveness for many generations.
The eleventh annual full-day workshop on HPC training and education is an ACM SIGHPC Education Chapter coordinated effort, aimed at fostering more collaborations among the practitioners from traditional and emerging fields to explore educational needs in HPC, to develop and deploy HPC training, and to identify new challenges and opportunities for the latest HPC platforms. The workshop will also be a platform for disseminating results and lessons learned in these areas and will be captured in a Special Edition of the Journal of Computational Science Education.


### Panel
*Educating for a Hybrid Future: Bridging the Gap between High-Performance and Quantum Computing*  
*Wednesday, Nov. 20 3:30pm - 5pm, B313B-B314*   
https://sc24.conference-program.com/presentation/?id=pan107&sess=sess447


Quantum computing is a promising paradigm for solving complex problems and accelerating progress in many areas of high-performance computing. The convergence of quantum technologies and high-performance computing offers unique opportunities for research and algorithm development, and requires a skilled workforce to exploit its full potential. As a result, there is a growing demand for hybrid and quantum computing education worldwide.
This panel brings together experts from leading supercomputing centers and the quantum computing industry to address the integration of QC into educational frameworks worldwide. The goal is to explore the dynamic interface between QC and HPC education, focusing on evolving user needs, necessary support systems, and innovative strategies to broaden participation in this emerging field. Through interactive discussions, the panel will explore the educational infrastructure and collaborative initiatives essential to cultivating a competent workforce adept at exploiting the capabilities of quantum computing.


## BoFs

### HPC Outreach: Mastering the Art of Science Communication
*Tuesday, November 19, 12:15-1:15p, B211*

Outreach is key to the sustainable growth of fields like HPC, which few people encounter in their daily lives. Effective science communication is essential to convey complex ideas, highlight research, and adapt our messages to resonate with diverse audiences, but many lack training in this crucial area. This session aims to start changing that by sharing experiences and gathering strategies for improvement. We will start with lightning talks before breakout group discussions on engaging with different audiences. Want to master science communication? Start practicing with your community! We invite anyone interested in outreach or science communication to participate.


### Challenges in Professional Skill Development — New Tools and Strategies
*Tuesday, Nov 19, 5:15-6:45p, B203*

Despite the quantity and quality of existing training materials, acquisition and development of HPC skills is still not straightforward enough to address the needs of the growing and diversifying community. The HPC training ecosystem needs to be easier to navigate for both learners and educators. Many elements required to make the ecosystem more FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable) already exist; the challenge is to connect them and identify the gaps in content, tools and approaches. This BoF will interactively explore the challenges in designing learning pathways, including the potential use of AI tools for personalized pathway development.


### Super(computing)heroes
*Wednesday, November 20, 12:15-1:15p, B203*

Members of underrepresented groups often lack access to role models within their minority. The HPC community is still predominantly male, making it difficult for young women to find female "superheroes" to identify with. Such role models are crucial for career planning and guidance. This session aims to provide especially women with the opportunity to meet influential well-recognized female HPC "superheroes" from academia, research labs, HPC centers and industry. Join us to be inspired and find relatable role models as we work together to build a more inclusive and connected HPC community.


### Training the Next Generation of Cyberinfrastructure Leaders and Professionals
*Thursday, Nov 21, 12:15-1:15p, B211*

This BoF will bring together cyberinfrastructure (CI) professionals and CI professional leaders largely from academia and national labs to discuss how to cultivate the cyberinfrastructure professional workforce.

## Awards

### Educational Award For Outstanding Contribution to Computational Science Education
*Thursday, Nov 21, 12:45-1:30p, Exhibit Hall A3*

Come see our awardees be honored!
